.Dd January 25, 2019
.Dt GENERATE-WEBSITE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm generate-website"
.Nd create detailed descriptions of each port variant
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command will generate a unique webpage for each port variant listed in the
conspiracy directory, overridden by the custom unkindness directory if
one is defined.  The web page lists standard information for each port
along with subpackage definitions and descriptions, dependencies,
distribution files, and a listing of ports that require the variant.
.Pp
It is recommended that a dedicated profile be used to generate the website
because configuration settings and saved port options will affect the
html output.  For example, if the ccache directory is configured, nearly
every page will show a dependency on ccache (normally undesired).
.Pp
A search index page will also be created at the root.  This page contains
a listing for each port/variant combination configured and is ordered by
newest to oldest by default.  The listing can be dynamically searched or
reordered as desired.  The web pages are grouped by buckets, then
namebase, and are finally placed in variant subdirectories.  All web pages
have the name "index.html".  Thus, every directory contains at most one
file.  The bucket and namebase directories contain no files, only
directories, so web servers configured for virtual directory listings
will expose the directory hierarchy.
.Pp
The website is generated at the profile directory, "www" subdirectory.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkg 8 ,
.Xr pkg-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-logs 8,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-instrumental 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
