.Dd January 25, 2019
.Dt GENERATE-REPOSITORY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm generate-repository"
.Nd create
.Xr pkg 8
repository catalog
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is a wrapper that executes the
.Em repo
command of
.Xr pkg 8 ,
which is used to create a catalog of the packages built by ravenadm.
Prior to creating the repository, ravenadm will delete all obsolete packages
to prevent them from ending up in the catalog.
.Pp
If ravenadm is building packages restricted to the localhost machine,
building a repository is not strictly necessary.  The root user can install
packages directory from the ravenadm packages directory using the
.Em add
command of
.Xr pkg 8 ,
which will automatically pull in dependencies from the same directory.
However, if packages are being built for multiple clients, creating a
repository for those clients to use is the recommended approach.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width RAVENPROFILE
.It Ev RAVENPROFILE
When this environment variable is set, it will override the setting for the
active profile if the variable contents match a known profile name.  The
profiles set the path for the packages directory which is used by the
.Em repo
command of
.Xr pkg 8 .
.El
.Sh FILES
The following files affect the creation of the repository catalog:
.Bl -tag -width _profile
.It <profile>-private.key
This is one of two files required to support the signing of the repository
by a local RSA key.  It is the output of the
.Cm openssl genrsa
command; see the EXAMPLE section for how to generate it.  The file
permissions are required to be set at 400.  For the default
profile, the file is normally located at
.Pa /raven/etc/ravenadm/primary-private.key
.It <profile>-public.key
This is the second of two files required to support the signing of the
repository by a local RSA key.  The command confirms the public counterpart
of the signing key is available because its path is required for the
generated pkg repository configuration file.  For the default profile,
the file is normally located at
.Pa /raven/etc/ravenadm/primary-public.key
.It <profile>-signing_command
This is one of two files required to support the signing of the repository
by an external signing server.  It consists of a single line containing
the command; see the EXAMPLE section.  For the default profile, the file
is normally located at
.Pa /raven/etc/ravenadm/primary-signing_command
.It <profile>-fingerprint
This is the second of two files required to support the signing of the
repository by an external signing server.  It consists of a single line
containing the SHA 256 hash of the public key that is the counterpart of
the key that signed the repository.  For the default profile, the file
is normally located at
.Pa /raven/etc/ravenadm/primary-fingerprint
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To activate the signing of default profile's repository with a local RSA
key, generate the two key files:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% cd /raven/etc/ravenadm
% openssl genrsa -out primary-private.key 2048
% chmod 0400 primary-private.key
% openssl rsa -in primary-private.key -out primary-public.key -pubout
.Ed
.Pp
To activate the signing of default profile's repository with an external
signing server, two files need to be created.  It's assumed the signing
server has already been configured as described by the
.Xr pkg-repo 8
man page, and that the keys are located in the repo.pub and repo.key files.
On the signing server which is 192.168.0.44 in this example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% sha256 -q repo.pub > primary-fingerprint
% echo "/usr/bin/ssh 192.168.0.44 /raven/bin/sign.sh" \\
  > primary-signing_command
.Ed
.Pp
Then move both files to /raven/etc/ravenadm directory on the build server.
The build server root user needs to have a passphrase-free SSH key access
to the signing server in order for ravenadm to sign the repository.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkg 8 ,
.Xr pkg-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-website 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-logs 8,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
