.Dd January 25, 2019
.Dt STATUS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm status"
.Nd perform build dry run
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar namebase[:variant]
.Op namebase2[:variant], ...
.Nm
.Ar path-to-list
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command shows what the result of a
.Em ravenadm build
command with the same arguments would be.  That command builds ports
incrementally, meaning that if existing packages are still valid, the build
of the corresponding ports will be skipped.  As this is a dry run command,
no actual building occurs.
.Sh OUTPUT
The command will list all the ports that would be build along with an
indication for the reason.  The reasons could be:
.Bl -tag -width _U_
.It [N]
New package.  In the profile's package directory, no package set for a port in
the build queue exists in any form.
.It [R]
Rebuild existing package.  For a given port in the build queue, a package
set does exist, but it needs to be rebuilt due to anticipated rebuilds earlier
in its dependency chain.
.It [U]
Upgrade existing package.  For a given port in the build queue, a package
set exists but its for an earlier version, so a new package set has to be
generated.
.El
.Pp
After this list, the build totals are displayed.  The same
information is logged to
.Pa /tmp/ravenadm_status_results.txt
since the full list is often longer than the terminal height.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width _profile
.It ravenadm_status_results.txt
Whenever a status command is run, a list of ports that would build with the
actual command is produced at
.Pa /tmp/synth_status_results.txt
.It ravenadm_prefetch_list.txt
When the configuration option to use suitable prebuilt packages has been
selected, the status command will compile a list of packages that would be
fetched by the build command and it writes that data to
.Pa /tmp/synth_prefetch_list.txt
.It 06_obsolete_packages.log
Whenever an existing package is considered invalid by the build or status
command, the detailed reason is logged at
.Pa <profile-log-dir>/06_obsolete_packages.log .
Typical reasons include a change in option settings, a change in the port's
option definitions, or more likely, the rebuild of a dependency.  Whenever
there is a question upon why the port is getting rebuilt, check this log.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-website 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-logs 8,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
