.Dd July 31, 2017
.Dt SET-OPTIONS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm set-options"
.Nd Set options of standard variant of port via ncurses dialog
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar namebase
.Op namebase2, ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The build of some ports may be modified by the user through the use of port
option switches.  This is only possible on the
.Em standard
variant of the port.  Most ports do not provide standard options.  In rare
cases, a port may not have a
.Em standard
variant.
.Pp
The standard variant options have default values, although these defaults
may be affect by the host operating system or architecture.
.Pp
There are two configuration settings that affect port options.
.Bl -enum
.It
If the profile is configured to
.Do
Assume default options
.Dc ,
then ravenadm will use the default port options values in the absence of
explicit option settings.  If this setting is false and no options are
explicitly set, ravenadm will display the options dialog sequentially for
all ports in the build queue that lack explicitly set ports options.
.It
If the profile is configured to
.Do
Always record options
.Dc ,
then ravenadm will create an option file that defines default values for the
port options on ports that lack explicit option settings.  This only occurs
when ravenadm is configured to
.Do
Assume default options
.Dc
because otherwise ravenadm forces the user to define these settings
manually.  The purpose of this setting is to alert the user when port
options change, because ravenadm will halt when saved option files do not
match available options.
.El
.Pp
The options dialog is displayed using ncurses, and is intended to be
self-explanatory.  Each option has an assigned letter (A .. Z and a .. z).
That provides a maximum of 52 options.  When less than 27 options are
defined, the keyboard entry is case-insensitive.  A slower alternative is to
use the arrow keys to move the yellow carot to the desired option and to use
the space bar to toggle the option settings.
.Bl -tag -width F1_or_1
.It F1 or 1
This key will save the settings and exit.  If the settings match the port
defaults and the
.Do
Always record options
.Dc
configuration is set to False, any existing options files will be deleted.
This means the port configuration will
.Do
float
.Dc
with the option settings.
.It F2 or 2
This key will set the option values to how they were when the dialog was
first launched.
.It F3 or 3
This key will set the option values to the port's default values.
.El
.Pp
This is a manual command that affects the listed ports sequentially.
If the port has no options, ravenadm will complain accordingly.
The option dialog shown by this command will be shown repeatedly before
the building of a bulk run if the profile's configuration requires this
behavior.
.Sh NOTES
Options can be grouped.  There are three kinds of groups:
.Bl -tag -width RESTRICTED
.It RADIO
By definition, only one option member of a radio group can be selected at a
time.   All radio groups come with one option set.  Setting another option
within the group to true will cause deselection of the previously set option.
.It RESTRICTED
In a restricted group, at least one option must be selected.  There is no
limit to how many options within the group can be selected, but ravenadm
will prevent the last set option from being deselected.
.It UNLIMITED
In an unlimited group, there are no restrictions on the option settings.
The only purpose to the grouping is for logical or cosmetic reasons.  The
port would treat ungrouped options identically to members of unlimited
groups.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-website 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
