.Dd June 30, 2017
.Dt DEV 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm dev"
.Nd Execution of port development subcommands
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar subcommand
.Op arg1
.Op arg2
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command requires a subcommand.  These subcommands are only used by ports
developers.
.Bl -tag -width buildsheet
.It buildsheet
This subcommand takes up to two arguments.  The first is mandatory and it
is a path to a Ravensource port directory (relative paths may be used).
The second is optional, but if it's used, it must be equal to
.Do
save
.Dc .
.Pp
The purpose of the
.Em buildsheet
subcommand is to compile the buildsheet from the Ravensource port materials.
Without the second argument, the buildsheet is sent to the terminal.  With
the valid second argument of
.Do
save
.Dc ,
the buildsheet is created directly in the Ravenports conspiracy directory.
.Pp
Typically
.Do
ravenadm dev generate-index
.Dc
is executed after this command to enable ravenadm to build the new port.
.It distinfo
The purpose of the
.Em distinfo
subcommand is create the distinfo file, downloading all distribution files
and patches as necessary.  It is executed when the current working directory
contains the Ravensource port that requires the new distinfo file.
.It dump
The
.Em dump
command is primarily a diagnostic tool for the ravenadm author.  It scans
the specification file in the current working directory and dumps the
contents of the structure that stores its contents after parsing.  If
an argument is provided and it's an existing directory, the command will
search that directory for a specification file.
.It generate-index
The
.Em generate-index
command scans all buildsheets located in the Conspiracy directory and uses
that information to generate
.Pa Mk/Misc/conspiracy_variants ,
.Pa Mk/Misc/fpc_equivalents ,
and
.Pa Mk/Misc/summary.txt
in the same Conspiracy directory.
.It makefile
The
.Em makefile
subcommand parses the local specification file and generates the port
makefile to the terminal.  If provided, the first argument represents the
directory containing the specification file (instead of the current working
directory).  The second argument specifies the variant, which affects the
makefile generation.  In the absence of the second argument, the value of
.Do
standard
.Dc
is assumed for the variant.  This functionality is primarily used by the
Ravenports makefile framework authors to detect breakage.  Regular port
developers may find it of limited use as it illustrates the makefile
generated for BSD make during the port build.
.It template
The
.Em template
subcommand prints a skeleton specification to the terminal.  If there's an
argument and its value is
.Do
save
.Dc ,
then the subcommand will write the specification template to the current
directory as well as create two subdirectories:
.Pa descriptions
and
.Pa manifests .
It is useful to quickly create a Ravensource port from scratch.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
