.Dd January 25, 2019
.Dt TEST 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm test"
.Nd build listed ports with additional checks
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar namebase[:variant]
.Op namebase2[:variant], ...
.Nm
.Ar path-to-list
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is the equivalent of deleting the packages of the listed ports
before executing the
.Xr ravenadm-build 8
command with the same arguments, but performing additional developer checks
to ensure the port buildsheets are properly constructed.
.Pp
Moreover, when a single port is specified, interacting with the build is
possible.  This is done to troubleshoot issues, generate patches, etc.
.Pp
Primarily the additional checks will be against the packing manifests to
ensure all listed files are present in the stage directory, and that no
files or directories are present there that aren't listed.  Additionally,
checks will be made against dynamically linked files to ensure any linked
libraries can be found by the run-time linker without the help of ldconf or
specific configuration files (meaning that the binaries contain valid
RPATH/RUNPATH tags to direct the runtime linker).  The framework will also
perform quality assurance checks that are not normally performed.  Caught
issues are typically considered fatal, meaning their presence fails the
build.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width ENTERAFTER
.It Ev ENTERAFTER
This environment variable only applies with the
.Cm test
command, and then only when a single port is specified.  If both of those
conditions are satisfied, and the variable has the value of:
.Bl -dash -compact -width 1
.It
extract
.It
patch
.It
configure
.It
build
.It
stage
.It
package
.It
install
.It
deinstall
.El
then an interactive build will be attempted. First, all the port's
prerequisites are built normally and
.Nm
will return to text mode. If everything built successfully, the specified
port will build up to and including the point specified by ENTERAFTER. At
that point, control will be given to the user by providing them with a
shell with the current directory set at the root of the builder.
When the user is done, they should terminate the shell with the
.Cm exit
command to signal
.Nm
to clean up and terminate. This is a developer tool to troubleshoot port
build problems and it is not intended for the average user.
.It Ev SELFTEST
This environment variable only applies with the
.Cm test
command.  When it is defined, the
.Dq test
target is executed as part of the build cycle; this target is not executed
under any other circumstances.
.El
.Sh FILES
The files defined in the FILES section of
.Xr ravenadm-build 8
and
.Xr ravenadm 8
also apply to this command.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-website 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-logs 8,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
