.Dd July 31, 2017
.Dt LOCATE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravenadm locate"
.Nd display location of port buildsheet
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar namebase
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is primarily used by developers to determine if a port exists and if so,
which bucket directory it has been placed in.
.Pp
The Ravenports collection has been split into 256
.Do
bucket
.Dc
directories.  The port's
.Em namebase
determines into which bucket directory the port is placed.  The same
bucket directory is used for both the finished Ravenports tree and the
Ravensource materials tree.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The configuration setting for the Conspiracy directory affects the output of
this command.  The buckets are subdirectories of the Conspiracy directory.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% ravenadm locate m4
Found at /var/ravenports/conspiracy/bucket_0E/m4
.Ed
.Pp
Ports developers will use this command to determine where to create a new
port in the Ravensource materials tree:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% ravenadm locate mynewport
Does not exist at /var/ravenports/conspiracy/bucket_C3/mynewport
.Ed
.Pp
In this example, the port developer would create the bucket_C3/mynewport
directory in the Ravensource tree and put the port's source files there.
.Sh NOTES
The bucket directory is determined by applying the SHA1 hash to the port's
namebase, then converting the first two characters of the resulting digest
to upper case.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravenadm 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-website 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
