.Dd January 25, 2019
.Dt RAVENADM 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ravenadm
.Nd administration tool for Ravenports
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op subcommand
.Op sub-arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program is an advanced, concurrent, cross-platform package building tool
that uses Ravenports for the software building specifications.  The use of
.Nm
is not optional with regard to Ravenports; there is no alternative way to
configure or build the packages.  The Ravenports tree and the Raven
administration tool are highly integrated.  Ravenports is not anchored to
any particular operating system.  It has already been ported to DragonFly
BSD, Linux (glibc), FreeBSD and Solaris/illumos. A bootstrap to
MacOS/Darwin has been done, too, but support of this platform has been
put on hold for now. The architecture primarily supported is x86_64, but
i386 and aarch64 are targeted also. Obsolete architectures are not and will
not be supported, nor are fringe platforms with little "market share".
.Pp
The main information is contained within the subcommand man pages,
particularly
.Xr raven-configure 8
and
.Xr raven-build 8 ,
although most of the pages are important.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravenadm-build 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-build-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-check-ports 8,
.Xr ravenadm-configure 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-dev 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-force 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-repository 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-generate-website 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-locate 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-distfiles 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-purge-logs 8,
.Xr ravenadm-set-options 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-status-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-subpackages 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-test-everything 8 ,
.Xr ravenadm-update-ports 8
.Sh HISTORY
Ravenports, Ravensource and
.Nm
combine to form the logical evolution of the Synth program, which is an
advanced concurrent package builder for the FreeBSD Ports Collection, it's
derivative DPorts, and NetBSD's pkgsrc.  Synth was conceived in 2013 and
coding started in December 2015.
.Pp
The Ravenports project was conceived in late 2016 and coding begin in
Febrary 2017.  The entire project was designed and written by John Marino
<draco@marino.st> and released under the Internet Software Consortium
license.
